##Delhi airport.

######The year 2000.

F or the third time in ten years of life, I am en route to Delhi internatal airport . This journey is taking longer than the previous two times where I had been part of two trips to fetch and send off my Aunt. It had taken about seven hours then, but today the main highway cutting south from Punjab into Delhi is being rebuilt, and rather than driving on it, we are snaking alongside.

   **DIVERSION -> **

To help direct us in a snaking pattern around the highway are signs simply saying 'Diversion' with an arrow indicating a direction to go. Whether this is the diversion, or if one is to be found in the direction of the arrow, is not made clear, but it ends up not making a difference as the heavier matters, such as backup of traffic involed in playing Diversion, begin weighing on the minds of drivers, and as a result some passengers as well. Our driver is muttering cusswords now as the Diversion signs are around every corner and we have been in an orbit of sorts around the huge suspened highway. At times we cut underneath it, and other times we driving over it's surface to swing to other side. But never are we allowed to stay on it. Not having driven yet, I cannot understand the frustration of the driver, but am thankful for the slower pace and being able to catch some scenes through the back window whe I am sitting raised on my knees so as to see as much as possible.   That had been over two years ago. We stopped to eat four maybe even five times on the way.


#I was born and have been raised, and today I will not be leaving it in a car. I will board a plane for the first time today, and I will be alone on the international flight.

I am standing next to my mother, who refuses to look at me, but also won't let me leave her side. My brother and I had trailed my father and uncle for what seemed like an hour while they figured out airport checkpoints, both overwhelmed by the amount of documents and papers, and what to do with them. My mother had been uncharacteristically absent during this and I had started to wonder whether I would see her at all before I had to get on the plane.

She is beside me now, and I am looking at her confused. I know she is anxious to talk, and she mustalso know that the time to do so is running out, but still she is just standing there, biting her lower lip, her eyes closed. Her hands are pinning one of mine between them, a gesture I understand is meant to be reassuring, but it gives away her own need to be reassured.

The first of the relatives now approach me and begin breaking a tension which had been building throughout the past week as they had started arriving at our home. Some mumble, others cling on to me and whisper barely audible blessings, the children--cousins and my brother--take turns touching me affectionately, uttering basic *bye-bye's*, while their round eyes under stretched brows project some combination of admiration, compassion, and bewilderment. But it is the ones who cry that have acute affects on my consciousness. Seeing unexpected tears in adult eyes for the first time is making a strong impression on me, and suddenly as if through sheer the pressure of that impression, my senses fade and oscillate, and I awaken fully to the realization that I would not be riding back to Punjab with these people. The scenes along that long dusty drive, which I took for granted, which always finished with either dusk or dawn, would not be seen by me again for an uncertain period of time.

And suddenly everything makes sense, and I am no longer confused by the strange behaviour of my relatives. Rather, they had been expressing their true emotions to me, while my family had their best to hide theirs from me. Even so, I had caught my mother crying in secrecy an unprecendented number of times that week, and after learning that my presence alone could induce her tears, I had began avoiding being alone with her.

And now, my poor mother, who had been instilling mantras about God into me well before I could distinguish wods from sonds, and would continue speaking long after I had stopped being attentive, is ignoring my gentle nudges and standing wordlessly engaged in what I have realized be a conversation with God. I am becoming afraid that she will lose all track of time like this, so I nudge her a bit agressively, desperate to have her attention for what could be the last time ever. I had been imagining my plane crashing so many times since learninig of the flight, that I fully expected it to happen and had even more or less come to terms with the scenario.

But now feeling ignored by my mother, I am suddenly afraid and there is a growing uncertainty in my stomach; I am delaying the oncoming of tears the best I can.

When she finally turns and faces me, there is a look in her eyes which I remember seeing the year before. On that ocassion, her eyes had gotten the look after our neighbour, who being self-taught in the very active field of minor operations had acquired the nickname 'Doctor', had stiched up a gash on her forehead which she had recieved during a fall. The doctor had tried to stich it up unsuccesfully for about twenty minutes, all the while becoming more and more flustered, trying to convince her it wouldn't hurt as much if she was just still, and each time right before he'd make any progress she would panic and scream, forcing him to stop.

My brother and I were running around the hammock she sat on, erupting into laughter at her exagerrated screams, right after which she would playfully wag a fist at us with a fake grimace, yelling empty threats, her eyes flashing with laughter. After about twenty minutes however I think the embarassment of situation had started to weigh on her, and she became serious.  After promised the doctor she'd allow him to work interrupted after tea, she got up and started making tea with slow deliberate movements.

My brother and I had sat on the hammock having tea with the doctor, while she had hers unusually alone and in unusual silence, unmoving, eyes closed, on the floor of the kitchen. True to her word, she closed her eyes and didn't budge while the doctor stitched up the wound with a barbarity at which I remember wondering why it was even necessary for her to get stiches. I remember feeling that my mother had gone somewhere, and if I yelled out to her now she wouldn't hear, so I waited for her to come back. My brother and I had both sat quietly, grimacing at the occasional spurt of blood and hugging each other for comfort, but much too fascinated to stop watching.

When the operation was complete, her eyes had opened and revealed her gazing straight ahead with the stare which was looking directly at me now. I look for but I do find not find hints of pain in her eyes, which instead overwhelm me with in an amalgamage of trust, courage, and acceptance. Though she is looking right at me, I can't shake the feeling that she's actually seeing something much farther away, that I should be looking at the same thing in her. But all I can see is her sitting on the hammock, a bloody napkin in hand,forehead bleeding, staring straight ahead with the look which is currently aimed at me. When she finally does speak, this estragned notion is propelled further.


*My son will become a man now.  God will always take care of you.*


As she hugs me for the last time and quickly turns are walk away, I catch her face break down and am comforted by the familiarity of it, even though I know she is crying. Her words still ring in my head, and my own tears crawl down into whatever depths they came from, which they will suceed in surfacing from 16 years later. During that twenty-hour journey to Vancouver thought, what began as a sense of bewilderment and amazment gave way to excitement. Amazed at the TV screen embeded into the seat in front of me, I explore all it's functions. I watch and Air Bud movie, and am too amazed by how humourous I find it to actually laugh. I listen to music I've never been exposed to before, and feel a strong reaction which I can't understand to *Lift me Up* by Moby. And during all gaps of slence, my mothers words in my head, inducing strange emotions which while feeling alien, are also undeniabily intriguing.

*A man*

I whisper to myself as I try to imagine myself grown up, with the various types of strong and muscular bodies I've seen in Wrestling on Tv and in bodybuilding posters.
