## Houses and homes

I met J a few a days after coming to Canada, an event which was exciting then, and one that I'm increasingly grateful for with the passing of years.

His family lived in the same west-coast Canadian suburb, on the same street, as my new guardian family. About a dozen houses east. A hundred steps or so. I could run there in under a minute probably.

His house was like most of the houses on the street, like most of the houses in the country, I'd later realize. Two storey rectangular houses, sandwiched by symmetrical back yards and front laws. These latter two features used exclusively for farming grass. Grass which is ritually harvested, packaged, and offered to the grazing herds of rumbling trucks. A professional feeder clinging onto each truck with one hand, the other hand ceremoniously tossing grass into the trucks gaping jaw.


On my way to becoming Canadian, this was perhaps the first mantra I subconsciously consumed: *The land surrounding a house shall grow grass*. Even house-owners who couldn't or woudln't partake in the harvest, would pay others( even children!) to do it on their behalf.

My new Canadian house however, was member of a visibily minority among Canadian houses. It grew rocks in the front lawn, and rocks in the backyard. Although making occasional offerring of small bundles of twigs, branches and weeds, my house never attracted the trucks with the scent of freshly cut grass.

I'd soon realize other differences between my house and J's. If 'home' can be agreed upon as a feeling a person may or may not experience inside a house, then the distance between our houses was continents apart. His house feeling like home; my house, a house.

Besides J his family consisted of two older brothers and their parents. His mother worked two jobs. She sometimes came home early enough to cook dinner, most nights just to sleep, and left in the morning before anyone else had stirred. His father who rarely spoke could occasinally be seen in the evenings. On those days he would have come home early from their farm on the outskirts of the city. On those days J would become reserved and quiet relative to others. The eldest brother who was in is his twenties, was away for days or weeks at a time. I never asked where, and J never explained.

J and I were the same age. The middle brother was quiet and introverted, not particularily confident nor bright, and thus naturally became subject to our influence and approval. To his credit, he often surpassed our expectations in the challegnes we arbitarily and playfully set for him. And to our credit perhaps, there were also times when he simply had had enough of us, and would lose his temper. It was after such occasions that, during J and I's combined efforts to be generous and get back on his good side, their house felt the most like home.

My own brother now seemingly worlds and planets away though terrestrial land and water seperated us, was very emotionally volatile. Being around J and his brother I would have the periodic realization of having pushed someone to their emotional limits. Such incidents would naturally be followed by a familiar guilt-driven consolation on my part, only now I wasn't alone in this experience. J was in the same boat, and he even bore the brunt of the most extreme outbursts by his brother, who felt close enough to me to let me see unfiltered rage, but not close enough to direct it exclusively at me. And just like my brother, J's brother gained bursts of incredible strength and a cat-like unpredictability during those fits of anger. Unlike my scrawny and wiry brother however, whose clinging attacks often resulted in bites and nails piercing skin, J's much bigger and rounder brother simply wished to club us to death. At such times we'd have to grapple his flailing limbs to the point of a collective exhuastion which preceeded negotations, negotiations that often concluded in him being allowed a ride on J's blue BMX, or my eventual yellow one, sometimes even both, both bikes being coveted shamelessly by him.

We developed comradarie right away, and in just a couple of few weeks, became good friends.

So my first Canadian summer, before beginning fifth grade, my morning routine became waking up and walking over to J's house, where his parents would be at work, where I had a familiar freedom, and where J would still be sleeping.
J invariably stayed up late playing video games and wathing television, activities that were strictly rationed luxuries in my new house. Usually being more refreshed, I became J's not always welcome wake up call, prompting him to make chai which we would enjoy while scheming about the day. Thus the days began for me, and ended at curfew, which though I pushed as far as I could, I quickly learned to be unnegotiable.

Post-curfew, if lucky, I'd get to watch television or play video games. If unlucky I'd be assigned chores, or made to study material which failed to capture my attention. If very unlucky I would be studying my feet while being scolded. When constrained to the house in a state somewhere between lucky and unlucky, I began escaping into reading and drawing. Time outside the house, something which I had taken for granted up until then, suddenly became precious.

Initially, J and I's activites were limited to biking and exploring. I had a to lot to learn, he had a lot to show me. I naturally fell in love with BMX bikes, and after a few months of pleading my case, was able to acquire my own. My bicycle in Punjab had been an adult's road bike, functional, designed with commutting in mind. Riding a BMX enticed me to play, and with J bringing me up to speed on play-riding, I was soon jumping over things, skidding, sliding along, both of us pushing our luck until one got hurt or shook up.

The more we explored, the more confident and daring we became. Perhaps the first game we created out of what can only honestly be described as sheer mischief, was *borrowing* golf clubs, me from my guardian uncle; he from his absent eldest brother's set. We would then walk over to the high school field tucked behind the church and parking lot, spanning nearly the length of our street on the opposite our homes.

The duration of this activity was often decided by the cranky caretaker whose house was on the far side of the fields. If he was around, he never missed the opportunity to come out yelling and pursuing us before casually collecting the golf balls we'd sent flying and bouncing in his general direction. Although we rarely managed to land one within ten meters of his house, it was a something of a dream of ours to send one in through one of his windows. So the game went on like this that entire summer. We showed up swinging, he came out cursing, and we took off taunting. Sometimes we would be back the very next day, with a bucket of balls that J always managed to top up somehow.

We also spent time developing constructive skills, like repairing our own bikes and those of family and friends. Jonny's mechanical aptitude was immediately apparent to me, and I was continually struck by his ability to not only diagnose mechanincal problems, but also to tinker with and seemingly create things at will. Sharing this interest but having nowhere near his skill, it was educational for me to just watch how he did things, trying to see things the way he saw them.

There had been signs throughout the summer, but it wasn't until school officialy started that I realized J had difficulty reading and writing. From my own observations, it was apparent this largely had to do with his lack of practice in reading and writing, which resulted from his own lack of interest in the matter, and also his parent's inablity to prevent him from only doing things that he liked. So when school began, despite being the same age and attending the same small elementary school, J was a year behind. It was a confusing and painful injustice to which I felt like the only witness. I even developed anger towards J upon seeing that the wise-cracking confidence with which he took apart and put machines together, beat high-scores in video games, made chai every morning, was entirely absent from the domain of words and letters. J, whom I had helped to pull out an abandoned, mutilated golf cart out from a ditch, dragged it home, and within two weeks had turned it into a running go-kart using lawnmower and bicycle parts, was not fit to sit in a fifth grade classroom with me.

***

