Satnam Waheguru

The handle of the sickle is starting to feel wet. My hand along with the arm and shoulder is tired now, and I shift the sickle to the left hand. I resume the rhythmic hacking and slashing at the green stalks in front of me, clasping my right hand tightly around two or three stalks at the same time where they've grown tightly, and other times just a single one, just as the sickle's serrated blade begins sawing through the bunch. At times my strokes are well-timed and well-angled enough to slice clean through three stalks with a single stroke. I can never predict when those will occur though, and now in my state of fatigue I am starting to become hopeful. I'm waiting for the perfect strokes. Trying just a bit too hard to make them happen, and they stop happening.

After only a minute, the left side now is give up again, for perhaps the dozenth time this afternoon. I finally stand up from my squatting position to stretch my legs. As attention drifts back to my surroundings, I'm suddenly conscious of the narrowness of the hole which I have been cutting into the crop. Turning around I see only more the same dark greenness, and become alarmed.

I remind myself that this happened before, and try not to panic. I must have been cutting at a slight angle again. But not being able to see the exit to the rest of the world, the entrance to my custom alley into it, I'm suddenly wary of the silence and snakes. I hurriedly collect as much of the cut stalks as I can carry and begin retreating from the narrow lane which has suddenly been claimed by the world I am afraid of. It is only about 10 meters before I enter the bareness part of the field, where the white cloth is laid out.

The cloth is covered by a pile that is already up to my chest. I throw my own loot on top, and vauling onto the pile, jump and fall on it a couple times, compressing it down, then repeat few more times for the enjoyable feeling. Tired and hungry, now wishing to be at home, I lie down clutching the pile awkwarldy, the tension below threatning to rise up unexpectedly and watch Bhapa, who is cutting the same way he always cuts.

Moving laterally across his wide valley, he digs ever so slighlty in at one end, and then sweeps across to the other side eating into the green while maintaining the same depth as the entry point. Despite always starting out alongside him with the intention of helping with his valley, I always end up digging myself into deep rounded holes which I enjoy. Sometimes multiple ones reflecting the times Bhapa called me out to start again. He no longer corrects me though, and I no longer complain about heat, fatigue or hunger.

